you
[Music]
hello and welcome to another episode of
how they changed prepare to enter the
matrix with these 15 little-known facts
about mind-bending 1999 film which was
released 20 years ago the matrix began
as a comic book filmmakers Alana and
Lily originally conceived the storyline
for the matrix as a comic book they had
both previously written comic books for
Marvel the unnamed cities see in the
matrix with Sydney Australia the
production showed the entire film both
interiors and exteriors in Australia for
tax purposes significantly lowering the
film's budget however all the street
names are taken from vacations in
Chicago martial arts choreographer when
will pin created the film's elaborate
stones and why were specifically
enlisted men who Payne's talents because
they loved his work on the 1994 Hong
Kong martial arts film feast of legend
both Will Smith and Nicolas Cage
formally turned down the role of Nia
Will Smith said no so that he could make
wild wild west when asked by Newsweek if
there were any rules he regretted
turning down Nicolas Cage replied that I
don't really have any regrets
I think regret is a waste of time yet he
allowed that they were movies that I
probably would have benefited palm if
the consensus in my life allowed me to
make them and started based matrix and
the Lord of the Rings
don't cruel sternly DAP and Leonardo
DiCaprio who also reportedly considered
before the filmmakers settled on ken
Reeves for the part
[Music]
Russell Crowe sean connery samuel
l.jackson couldn't have been more fierce
Sean Connery it was apparently a matter
of not understanding the script which
was also the reason he turned down the
Lord of the Rings when they declined
Laurence Fishburne took the role the
actors were asked to brush up from their
knowledge of philosophy before
production began his had all the lead
actors with some black red and
simulation by Jean Baudrillard out of
control by Kevin Kelly and introducing
evolutionary psychology betting Evans
and Oscar Thurid in order to better
understand the world of the movie in the
film they are actually hired he's a
little computer files in a copy of
bawdry arts book
[Music]
the movies color-coded every scene that
takes place within the computer world of
The Matrix was given a Korean tint all
the scenes that take place within the
real world have a blue team in fact the
only time the color Queen appears in the
real world sad scenes is in the matrix
code on the ship's computer screen
[Music]
Hugo Weaving Hakone dagger hip surgery
after being injured during fight
training is completely shifted the
shooting schedule in weavings fight
scenes were completed at the end of the
production in order to allow time for
him to heal all in all it was a tough
shoot for all the main actors he were
had hip surgery
cariann hurt her hip and ankle Laura's
got hit in the head he got his eyelid
sliced open I couldn't walk a couple of
times restore the guardian
I mean I'm exaggerating a bit but there
were a couple of sequences where I had
to carry all these guns it was about 50
pounds of weapons and waiting for the
special effects sequences the Pollard
heads etc there was one time where we
stood for like three hours in the combat
training program before can Reeve stars
his furious attack some Affairs he rubs
his nose with a thumb and finger a
similar manner is more priestly before
he attacks on his opponents the move was
improvised by Reeves
[Music]
according to costume designer Kim parrot
trained his costume was made with cheap
PVC because of much tighter budget
similarly Nina's card wasn't actually
very expensive fabric it was a rule
blanket for $3 a yard
[Music]
in the first 45 minutes of the film neo
ken Reeves has 80 lines 44 of these
lines are questions just over half of
his total dialogue averaging at roughly
one question per minute
in Greek mythology Morpheus is the god
of Dreams somewhat ironic considering my
first rule here is to awaken people from
their dream states to reality
[Music]
the date stamp on the phone trace
program in the opening sequence reads to
1998 the date stamp on the phone trace
program in the cleansing sequence reads
nine 1899 this means that the event will
take place of exactly nineteen months
after the lobby shoot out the camera
pans back showing the aftermath of the
gunfight in the lobby during this a
piece of one of the pillars pulled off
this happened by coincidence during the
filming and was not planned but was left
since it seemed appropriate
[Music]
numerous sets of identical twins were
cast as extras in the woman and rat
scene in which mafia stakes near through
a computer simulation of the matrix to
create the illusion of a repeating
program example the tall man with
slicked back hair and sunglasses in the
opening shot is seen seconds later as a
police officer right in the parking
ticket
[Music]
when tank is applied in the martial arts
training to kneel there is a short of
the computer screen as it crawls through
the various martial art styles the
graphics have a computer image of a
person and the title of the star below
the fifth one on the screen is entitled
drunken boxing whooping well the fight
choreographer for this movie was
director and fight choreographer for
Jackie Chan's early hit drunken master
1978 in which Jackie Chan's character
masters the style of su Chun or drunken
boxing some of the other martial arts
fighting stars being downloaded are dead
so Scotty can poke tech handle and of
course
kung foo
[Music]
in the early stages of developing what
was to become the famous bullet time
sequence usually fact supervisor zhanka
attend director photography bill Pope
constructed many pimples and dole is in
the hope of crazy the effect in the
old-fashioned way
the original dolly they created for the
camera would be lead around the action
at a tremendous speed after many failed
tests and broken dollars he opted for
computer graphics which meant writing an
entirely new program for the effect
however the bullet time sequence does
still use one very old-fashioned
technique photography
by filming Australia the filmmakers kept
a final budget at sixty million dollars
the movie would not have been greenlit
by Warner Brothers otherwise because it
would have caused a tan record 180
million dollars for a US based
production
[Music]
and that's all for now don't forget to
subscribe if you still haven't and smash
like button they care friends
[Music]
you